### Swine reference viruses, human vaccine strains, and variant cases described in OFFLU reports ###
This spreadsheet collates H1 and H3 subtype viruses characterized in OFFLU influenza A virus in swine reports. These reports are generated by the World Organization for Animal Health (WOAH) and Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Network of Expertise on Animal Influenza (OFFLU) swine influenza A working group.

For more information on the network, and the published reports, see [OFFLU network](https://www.offlu.org).

#### Abbreviations: ####
- huReference: human seasonal H1 or H3 subtype viruses used by the OFFLU network as "reference" strains in characterization work.
- SwReference: endemic swine H1 or H3 subtype viruses used by the OFFLU network as "reference" strains in characterization work.
- huVaccine: human seasonal H1 or H3 vaccine strains (these may be the primary strain or alternates).
- variant: zoonotic infections of swine IAV in humans.
- CVV: a "candidate vaccine virus." NB: a CVV is generally also a variant case. If an animal IAV clade is detected at high levels relative to other clades, variant cases are identified, and/or genetic and antigenic diversity of that clade is significantly drifted from previously recommended pre-pandemic CVVs and current human seasonal vaccine strains, a representative animal strain may be considered for development of a new CVV.

#### Column headings: ####
1. interal octofludb reference
2. type: huReference, SwReference, huVaccine, variant, CVV
3. OFFLU-characterization: strains that have been characterized in hemagglutination inhibition assays, annotation indicates year and report (a=February, b=September)
4. sequence ID: NCBI Genbank or GISAID accession
5. strain name: IAV strain name
6. subtype
7. host: human or swine
8. country
9. region
10. clade: H1 or H3 swine clade, in some cases a human seasonal name (this field requires revision)
11. date

#### related citations: ####

1. Anderson TK, Chang J, Arendsee ZW, Venkatesh D, Souza CK, Kimble JB, Lewis NS, Davis CT, Vincent AL. Swine influenza A viruses and the tangled relationship with humans. Cold Spring Harbor perspectives in medicine. 2021 Mar 1;11(3):a038737.
